# Auction Idea catch-all

* A total of 7 teams, each will have their own log-in. Do not want to tie it to an email ID. I want to assign each team a default username and password to begin with and then let them update their log in details once they are connected.  
* Each team will also have a display name which will be their formal name. These formal names will also be the names of the tabs that represent each team. Each team will have edit rights on the tab that belongs to their team. This will let them select the team formation, perform substitutions before game weeks, select their captain and vice captain. This tab will also allow teams to select players to be dropped for upcoming ‘drop and auction’ rounds. Team A can edit their own team but can only have view access to the tabs of other teams like Team B and C.  
* Currently each team page should only list the players in a list formation, we can implement pitch-style layout later. Teams when editing their own page should be able to drag and drop players from starting XI to the bench. Each team will have 2 goal-keepers, 5 defenders, 5 midfielders and 3 strikers. Ensure logic to allow only valid formations (min of 1 goalie, 3 defenders, 3 mids and 1 striker).   
* Before the auction, the player slots in each team will obviously be blank so have place-holder text ready.  
* Create additional profiles \- ‘auction master’, ‘guest’ and ‘admin’. I will be admin and will retain edit rights for the entire app. ‘Auction master’ will have read access to all the teams but will have write/edit access to perform activities on the auction page. Guests will only have read access to all aspects of the app. There can be multiple people logged in as guests.   
* Login page should have option to sign in as a guest. Clear their session when they close the website and ask them again when they log back on.

## Auction Flow:

I am outlining some auction rules here which may be fluid

* The auction master (AM) determines the order for the draft auction. Teams will then bid in that order circularly. The very first auction, the order of teams will be based on previous year’s standings, from 1st to 7th. All subsequent in-season auctions will follow top to bottom order of the live league standings at the time \- 1st to 7th.   
* Player bidding will happen only by position. First all goalies are auctioned, then defenders, then midfielders and forwards at the end. Bidding will not move to a different position category until no team has an empty roster spot in the current position category.  
* Going to give a couple of examples of bidding order. Assume 7 teams that bid in order A,B,C,D,E,F and G. We start the with goalkeepers first. The AM will bring up the first keeper in the list. Once the teams that are interested in bidding for player GK1 have been finalized, the bid order will proceed in order of A to G. If team A isn’t involved in bidding, the priority will move to the next team in the bid order. So let’s assume teams B, D, E, F are interested, bidding starts with player B, with team A having forfeited their first spot because they are not interested in this player. Lets assume team E wins the bid, AM will end the bidding and player GK1 is assigned to team E with the winning bid price deducted from team E’s budget. Now, AM can bring up player GK2 and bidding begins with the next team in order that still has empty roster spots for the current position that is undergoing bids (in this case GKs). Since this is just the 2nd GK that is up for draft, team B still has 2 GK spots open so they get first priority in bidding should they indicate interest. Let’s say we are at player GK12 and team B have already filled their GK spots, they are now out of the bidding for this positional round and will only re-enter the draft order consideration when bidding for next positions starts (in this case defenders). So bid order will always go to the team that's next in order provided they're still involved in the bidding for players that round. If not then it skips them and goes to next team involved in bidding.  
* The players will be listed by category and will then be sorted within their categories by descending order of % teams selected by on the FPL site.  
* The bidding will be initiated by the auction master who will select the player that is currently being auctioned. That player name will be displayed in a central area. Once that player is brought up for auction, a 45 second timer will start which will give teams an option to indicate their interest in bidding or passing on the player. Once all teams have indicated their intentions, the timer stops and bidding begins. If the timer has run out, only teams that indicated they want to bid will enter the bid rounds. The auction master will have authority to reset the timer after it has run out to allow other teams that could not decide in the given 45 seconds to reconsider. This will be on a case-by-case basis and at the discretion of auction master.   
* Once bidding begins, the team bidding order remains \-eg if the order was team 1, team 2, team 3, team 4 , team 5 , team 6 and team 7 and only teams 2, 4 , 7 indicated interest, they will enter the bidding round and will bid in circular order of 2, 4, 7\. Teams may indicate interest in any order, but actual bidding will only proceed in the order of bidding established according to rules above.  
* Teams that do not need to fill a specific roster position, get automatically removed from bidding considerations until bidding moves to a category where they have empty roster spots. For example if Team 3 has filled their 5 defender slots, they are now not allowed to enter bidding for further defenders.  
* Once a team has won the bid, the auction master indicates which team won the bid for that player and the team tab for that team is updated with the player and their price.  
* Auction master then selects the next player for bidding to be brought up into the central auction console and teams get to indicate interest again. The auction cycle continues.

Auction Logic:

* Minimum base price for all players is set to $1mn at the beginning of the season. Once drafted, update the base price of the player to the price of the winning bid. If a player is selected to be dropped, once the drops have been confirmed by the admin or the auction master, the available player list gets updated with the dropped players from all teams and the base price of the player becomes half of what their latest draft price was rounded up. For example, Isak starts the season at 1mn, he is then picked up by team 3 at $33mn. His price is updated to $33mn. He gets injured in GW13 and will be out for a while so team 3 decides to drop him. Once all other teams have selected and finalized their dropped players, the auction masters hit the submit button to return all dropped players into the available player pool before the auction begins and Isak price is now half of 33mn rounded up \= 17mn.   
* Each team gets 3 free drops each for every in-season auction. Keep a track of this. Each team will incur a \-4 pt penalty per player dropped above the free quota of 3 drops. Each team also gets to carry over a maximum of 1 free unused drop into the next auction.  
* Track teams and their player selected. Once a team has 5 defenders, they become ineligible to bid on defenders. De-activate their bidding console for player positions they are not allowed to bid for.  
* Auction master has edit access to bring players up to auction, reset timer to allow other teams to put in their bid for that player.   
* Teams only have write access to their own console bids to indicate player interest when player is brought up for auction and then for entering/editing bid price once bidding begins. Obviously , each team can only edit their own bidding console.   
* Track team budgets and do not let them bid non-permissable amounts for players. Bids should always be integer values. Also, since the base price of each player is 1mn, do not allow teams to bid a number for a player that would not allow them to fill the remaining empty slots in their squad. For example if the remaining budget is $20mn and there are 4 empty slots in the team, they cannot bid more than 18mn for the current player as that would leave them with only 2mn for the other 3 players.  
* Auction master has the ability to end the timer early and start bidding when only one team has a certain position to fill. This allows faster movement of the auction when only one team is interested in the player and we do not need to wait for other teams. Maybe this can be a ‘proceed to bidding button’ that automatically ends the timer and starts the bidding.  
* Auctions can be initiated by auction master on the auction tab. This will load the various consoles on the auction page as indicated below.

## Auction UX/UI:

Element list/modules on auction page:

* Player selection panel for which player is brought up for bidding. Collapsible drop downs for player positions and then players sorted by % selected by on FPL. All player data is fetched from FPL API.  
* Central auction console that shows player name, relevant stats and current base price.  
* Each team will have their own bid console which shows their remaining budget and number of positions filled per player. I do not want to display the full names of the players drafted so far. So for example team 2 console would show Gk ½, mid 3/5 , def 2/5 and fwd ⅓ if they had signed 1 gk, 2 defenders, 3 mid and 1 forward. This should allow all other teams to be aware of where other teams stand.   
* Also have a live log on the side which gets updated every time a player bid is approved by the auction master. This log should read ‘Player A’ signed by ‘Team 3’ for ‘price of $x mn’. Make log searchable with fuzzy logic.  
* Timer counting down from 45 seconds once the auction master selects the player. Selecting a different player resets the timer.   
* Auction master is the only one who can conclude the bidding for a player that assigns him to the team with the highest bid. He also has the ability to undo upto the last 5 moves/decisions he made. This is to allow any mistakes to be fixed.   
* Auction master has the ability to end the draft but this can only be allowed if no team has any empty roster spots. Any attempt to do so with a team not having their full complement of 15 players will throw up a message indicating which teams are still missing players in what positions. Auction master can end the draft by clicking end draft button (this is obviously available only in the auction master console)

## Team Page UI/UX and Logic

* For now display each team only as a list with a summary of their season stats so far. Do not list their FPL price, list their base price as described in the auction logic above. Players will be grouped by position and there will also be a bench where players can be subbed in or out and a dropped players section to indicate which players are to be dropped for the next auction. Until the auction actually begins, dropped players can be returned to the squad (bench or starting XI). The team budget dynamically changes based on players that are in the squad. If a player is moved to the dropped section, the budget updates dynamically to reflect the budget in hand for the upcoming draft.   
* Team selections will follow the same deadlines as FPL team submission deadlines.   
* **Placeholder for incomplete team or team formation to be added later here**  
* At the start of the season, this will obviously be a blank team with placeholder tabs/names in place of actual player name.   
* Clicking a particular player should enable the following options \- make captain, make vice captain, swap/substitute and drop.   
* Ensure logic to allow only valid formations (min of 1 goalie, 3 defenders, 3 mids and 1 striker). 

